# New-IcoAzVM
## Introduction  
This Cmdlet creates one or more virtual machines (VM) based on the ICONICS Suite offers on Azure Marketplace. Supported ICONICS Suite versions include **10.96.1** and **10.96.2**.  

This Cmdlet can be invoked with and without parameters. If no or insufficient parameters are provided when the Cmdlet is called, it will ask you a series of questions to guide you through the process.  

The Cmdlet will guide you through the process with a series of questions to collect the necessary parameter values as outlined in the pre-requisites. It will then allow you to confirm the collected values before you commit to creating the necessary resources.  

This Cmdlet will create the following resources as necessary:  
- Resource Group  
- Network resources (IP, subnet, NSG, NIC, VNet)  
- Virtual Machine

## Pre-requisites  
Before running this Cmdlet, ensure you have the following information:  
- **Subscription name** where resources should be created in.  
- **Resource Group name** where resources should be created in.  
    - If the given Resource Group name doesn't exist in the subscription, a new one will be created.  
- **Azure region** where resources should be created in.  
    - If an existing Resource Group is re-used, then the Azure region of the Resource Group will be applied.  
    - List of Azure regions can be found here: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/geographies/
    - Enter Azure regions in lowercase and without spaces
- **Number of VMs** to generate.  
- **Azure VM Size name**
- **SSD option**
    - If SSD option is chosen, VMs will use Premium SSD for its OS disk. Otherwise, Standard HDD is used.
- **Prefix name** of the virtual machines.  
    - The machine name of the VM will be generated by appending an index number to the Prefix name.  
    - The index number appended will depend on the existence of VMs with the same Prefix name.  
    - If there are VMs in the Resource Group with the same Prefix name, then the index will be the count of VMs with the same Prefix name + 1. Otherwise, it will start at 1.  
- **ICONICS Suite version**
- **User Name** of the initial administrator account.  
- **Password** that meets the following requirements:  
    - At least 12 characters long.
    - Have one or more lower case alphabets.  
    - Have one or more upper case alphabets.  
    - Have one or more numbers.  
    - Have one or more symbol characters. 
- If a new resource group is being created, you will be asked if you want to allow:  
    - **HTTP** inbound using TCP port 80  
    - **ICONICS FrameWorX** inbound using TCP port 8778  
    
    *Note that this only opens the ports at the Azure NSG level. The respective ports still need to be allowed in the VM's Windows Firewall.*

## Using the Cmdlet  
This Cmdlet can be launched from:  
- PowerShell 7 with the Azure module
- Azure portal cloud shell  

Once in the directory where this Cmdlet is saved, invoke it by typing: **./New-IcoAzVM.ps1**  

Optionally, parameters can be passed in with the following parameter names:
- **SubscriptionName**
- **ResourceGroupName**
- **Location** *(eastus,westeurope,...)*
- **VMCount** *(1,2,3,...)*
- **VMSize** *(B2s, B2ms, D3_v2,...)*
- **UseSSD** *(Y/N)*
- **VMPrefix**
- **ICONICSversion** *(10.96.1, 10.96.2)*
- **Username**
- **Password** *(min. 12 characters, one upper, one lower, one number, one symbol)*
- **AllowHTTP** *(Y/N)*
- **AllowFWX** *(Y/N)*

For any parameter that is not defined when triggering the Cmdlet, prompts will show up to guide you through the rest.  

## Known issues  
1. If the list of existing VMs with the same Prefix name have out of order index numbers, this script will fail.  
        
    i.e.: if your chosen Prefix name is "TestVM" and there is "TestVM-1" and "TestVM-3" in your resource group, this script will count the 2 VMs and use 3 as the next index number, resulting in an attempt to create a VM named "TestVM-3", and failing.

## Examples
    ./New-IcoAzVM.ps1 -SubscriptionName MySubscription -ResourceGroupName MyResourceGrp -Location eastus -VMCount 2 -VMSize B4ms -UseSSD N -VMPrefix IcoVM -ICONICSversion 10.96.2 -Username iconicsadmin -AllowHTTP Y -AllowFWX Y
The example above would prompt for the *iconicsadmin* password and then create the following:
1. Set the subscription to *MySubscription*
1. Create *MyResourceGrp* in the *eastus* region if it doesn't exist, otherwise use the existing resource group
1. If a new resource group is created, also create the network components like subnet, VNet and NSG. The NSG will have *HTTP (TCP port 80)* and *FrameWorX (TCP port 8778)* allowed for inbound.
1. Create 2 ICONICS Suite *10.96.2* VMs with the *B4ms* size using *Standrd HDD* OS disk.
1. If a new resource group is created, VM name will be *IcoVM-1* and *IcoVM-2*.  
        
    If resource group already exist and there is already a VM with prefix of *IcoVM*, then the VM name will be *IcoVM-2* and *IcoVM-3*.  
1. Set the initial admin of the VMs to be *iconicsadmin* with the password entered earlier.